Israel has a genocidal intent against
the Palestinians in Gaza the charge of
genocide leveled against Israel is not
only false it's outrageous the highest
court of the United Nations has ruled
that Israel must take all measures to
prevent genocidal acts in Gaza and
punish the direct and public incitement
to commit genocide but Israel has been
accused of allowing controversial
statements to
continue BBC News Arabic has
investigated statements by Israeli
leaders soldiers and on the internet we
ask what action has Israel taken since
the ruling at the international court of
justice since hamas's attack on Israel
in October 2023 and Israel's subsequent
military campaign in Gaza both sides
have used inflammatory language some
Hamas officials have made speeches about
repeating the acts and Hamas leaders
have been accused of war crimes but
because Hamas is not a state it cannot
be taken to the
icj Israel however can be taken to the
icj it has signed the genocide
convention and incitement to genocide is
also punishable under Israeli National
Law but what is considered a genocidal
act the UN defines genocide as acts
committed with intent to destroy in
whole or in part in National ethnical
racial or religious group the convention
outlines five punishable acts one of
which is the direct and public
incitement or call to action to commit
genocide the deputy speaker a member of
the prime minister's C party made these
comments weeks after the icj's
order he'd previously called to burn
Gaza in a postern x he said he deleted
it following a request from the platform
but he didn't
apologize and controversial comments
have been made since the ruling by those
in Israel's government
[Music]
this call by Israel's national security
minister for Palestinians to leave Gaza
voluntarily a population of more than 2
million was made just two days after the
icj
ruling common calling for the expulsion
of Palestinians from Gaza have been made
by soldiers on the
ground since October 7th there have been
videos by IDF soldiers mocking and
celebrating the destruction of
[Applause]
Gaza the IDF told the BBC that it
handles videos posted by Soldiers with
command and disciplinary measures and
that in some of the examined cases it is
concluded that the expression or
behavior of the soldiers in the footage
is
inappropriate we consider the the
calling to uh displacement of the Gaza
population as part of the ethnic
cleansing that is ongoing in Gaza that
is part of the of the genocide certain
statements let's say by itamar benir and
others you know I'm definitely not going
to defend such statements but they do
not rise to the level of genocide
certainly un special reporter Franchesca
albanesi however says we can see that
it's impossible to return Gaza to what
it was because 70% of it has been
destroyed because over 33,000 people
have been killed 14,000 of whom are
children so the
incitement against the people of Gaza
has translated in fact into into uh
concrete actions so there is a direct
link I mean it cannot be missed
Franchesca Alban's criticism of Israeli
policies in Gaza have been strongly
contested among others by Israel and its
Ally the United
States in Gaza this link between what
politicians say and what's echoed by
soldiers was a core part of South
Africa's case during the icj hearing in
January they claimed Israel's political
leaders military commanders and persons
holding official positions have
systematically and explicit terms
declared their genocidal intent and
these statements are then repeated by
soldiers on the ground in Gaza and gave
this
example this speech was addressing
soldiers before the ground offensive in
Gaza amalik comes from Biblical story
where Israelites are ambushed by the
amalik people and God commands
destruction women and children
included the war against amalik is
described as a me of war in Jewish text
it is a war commanded by God and
includes defending Jewish life under
which it is considered obligatory to
fight I think Nan's reference to Amal in
the modern context of this war was
highly problematic was um using a term
that's vague and could be understood in
different ways in order to Rally support
um especially among the religious um C
prime minister netanyahu's office says
he was talking about Hamas in connection
to amalik and not Palestinian civilians
to understand the reach of the term
amalik the BBC investigated online
mentions since the start of the war
filtering those to ones associated with
Gaza war and narrowing that down further
to mentions just in Hebrew we collected
over 3,600 mentions and found they
reached a total of 6 million users
mention speak around the time of Mr
netanyahu's speech and again at the
beginning of December when this video
went
[Applause]
viral this religious language and
ideology has become part of the
messaging within Israel at least in some
communities it was also expressed at an
annual conference that took place for
all Zion shivas Jewish religious schools
in
Israel Rabbi ilaali gives a lecture
which he describes as being about the
treatment of civilians in Gaza the
following clip went viral and has been
watched over a million times we have
added our own verified translations
one description of a me for war which
Rabbi Mali discusses in his lecture
includes a Commandment that states do
not allow a soul to live we contacted
Rabbi Ilah Ali about his
lecture his legal representative replied
saying the rabbi's lecture has been
grossly
misrepresented and that he made it very
clear that anyone following the biblical
commandment today would be causing the
Army and the nation extreme
harm the rabbi said that it is forbidden
to harm the civilian population from a
child to an old
man we managed to track down the full 47
minute lecture and Rabbi Mali thus
conclude the following
however earlier in the lecture he
discusses the position of Jewish text in
relation to civilian populations and
says this
it Ma a lawyer from the Israeli group
tag me ear that campaigns against racism
and discrimination ask the police to
investigate Rabbi Mali on suspicion of
incitement to commit genocide violence
and terrorism he says he's waiting to
hear if that will
happen two days before the court hearing
in January Israel's attorney general
said any statements calling for
intentional harm to civilians contradict
the policy of the state of Israel and
may amount to a criminal offense
including the offense of incitement
currently several such cases are being
examined by Israeli law enforcement
authorities and while no report has been
made public the icj confirmed it
received the report it requested from
Israel on what action it's taken the BBC
has not been able to verify whether any
criminal investigations have been opened
to determine if statements could be
inciting
genocide whether there investigations of
course depends on whether in their view
uh any arguable incitement to genocide
has happened Hamas hides behind
civilians and inevitably some of those
civilians have uh regrettably and
tragically been harmed the BBC contacted
Israel's State Attorney Police
Commissioner and Ministry of justice for
comment only the ministry of Justice
replied saying they have to balance the
constitutional right to freedom of
speech while safeguarding against
harmful
incitement it's a case the icj issued
the interm order because a final verdict
will take years and while there's no end
inside to this deadly and long-standing
conflict between Israelis and pales
inian inflammatory language from both
sides
continues it's unclear what Gaza will
look like or how it will be governed
once a final ruling is eventually issued
[Music]